# Geometron

The purpose of science and technology is maximize the ability of the human mind to interact with our physical environment.  As our society becomes increasingly technological, we find that our power in that society is based on our ability to control machines. As machines become increasingly complex, the groups of people able to control them become more and more specialized, and most people lose more and more control with each new more complex generation of machines.  In this work we seek to push back against this trend by building a language for the natural control of machines by people.  The intent here is to build not just a language but a linguistic framework which can be used in many context on many technologies for *all* people to wield more control over *all* machines.  By gearing the operation of the language directly toward industrial automation machines it is our intent to build a pathway for ordinary people across Humanity to have direct control of the means of industrial production at the local level.  

Geometron is a language for humans to control machines using the natural structure of both machine operation and the human mind.  We consider three structures to be fundamental to how our minds organize thought which are mirrored in machine operation.  Those are:

1. Cataloging or listing of things.  One of the most basic things we do when we organize information is make lists of things: the periodic table of elements, the alphabet, the organization of the base 10 number system, division of light into discrete colors, the system of organizing mailing addresses etc.   This is a structure mirrored in how modern computers are constructed: information is stored based on an addresses.  Addresses in a modern computer also often contain other addresses, direction the operation of the machine from one point in memory to another.   While arbitrarily complex and varied types of information can be stored at a memory address, it is useful in both machine architecture and human language to impose a structure which is universal across many specific elements.  For instance, the mailing address format can point to a vast estate, a PO box, an individual, a corporation, etc. but it's useful to have all these under the one unified system of addressing.  Another example of this is library call numbers, which map all of human knowledge to a simple string of numbers and letters.

2. Naming of things.  Perhaps the most fundamental form of abstract human language is using a word to point to a thing.  In particular the ability of the human mind to chain the naming process together is fundamental to human thought.  For example, we use names to point to people, but also use the word "person" to point to each individual person.  That is, words are used to point from any kind of thing to any other kind of thing.  The naming process creates complex networks of relations between things which we use to build up our whole view of the world.  As with the cataloging process, this function is mirrored in the architecture of our machines.  The languages we use to program machines are constantly using pieces of information, called variables, which represent some meaning separate from the name of that information.  For instance, in commonly used web software to have something called a "shopping cart" which is an abstract thing pointing to a list of things a person plans to buy.  In addition to information technology we consider the mappings which take place in machines where something like a pull on a steering wheel can map to a whole sequence of things, from a computer to power steering, to the many machines which respond in concert to such actions.  This is not exactly naming, but has a similar structure, where things are mapped to other things.  

3.  Geometry.  In this work we assume that certain types of geometry are fundamental to the structure of both human thought and to how all machines we build operate.  Most of the structure of the language presented here is based on either considering geometry which feels natural to the human mind like "left" and "right" and geometry natural to the operation of a machine like "distance between plants" in an agricultural robot or distance between pixels in a display.    

The Geometron language uses all three of these elements to construct a geometric meta-language: a language for building languages.  The language consists of geometric *actions* organized according to an addressing system called the Geometron Hypercube.  Each action is represented by a symbol which is itself drawn using the actions of Geometron.  





