
# Magic

Magic is the replication of desire, and the desire of replication.  

Sets are collections of objects in the most general possible sense.  Anything of any kind which can be identified by human language can be called an "object" for our purposes.

Set Magic is the replication of a set which includes the desire to replicate the set.  

Symbol Magic is the creation of self-replicating symbols which point to their own replication.  Symbols in their most general sense are geometry with meaning.  That geometry can be encoded in anything.  So symbols include all fabrication technology and crafts of all kinds.  All technology can be considered a subset of symbol creation.  All technology and craft is geometry with meaning to the creators of the things.

Trash Magic is the use of magical practice to build a Technological Complete Set as defined in the Trash Magic Manifesto.  

Chaos Magick is invoked in public because it is anarchic enough in its construction to include new paradigms in magical practice.  

The Trash Robot is a specific self-replicating set, which self documents.  It is what is documented here.

Trash Robot can be used to cast Set Magic.  To do that the magic practitioner chooses a set they desire to replicate, and then decides how to parse that set into objects.  They then map those objects to icons encoded in the language of the Trash Robot clay printer.  In order to do that they first sketch out what they're looking for in a notebook, in either words or crude depictions of the desired icons.  They then either find images on the Web, copy and paste their url and put them in the global image feed or they find an object, photograph it, and upload it to a local Geometron server.  

Images are aligned in the aligner, and the state is saved with the save button.  Then they are traced in the tracer.  The code is copy/pasted from the tracer into the Feed.  This process is repeated with each element of the Set to be cast.  Elements of the Icon Set are then printed into Sculpey clay with the [Trash Robot Printer](maps/robot).  These prints represent the Earth Elemental and go in the bag with the inverted green triangle with a line.  They are used to mold the Stamp coins which are then placed in a Fire elemental bag with a red triangle.  Those in turn are used to stamp the final coins, which are then painted with paint pen, sanded flat, and placed in a Water Elemental bag, with an inverted blue triangle.  Coins can be stamped with bent paperclip staples which are used to fasten them to Sigil Boards.  These are then used as game pieces on boards created with Geometron and Trash Robot, consisting of geometric patterns painted with sharpie on rainbow duct tape cardboard with holes punched in them for Trash Ties, as well as googly eyes.  The activity of repeatedly re arranging the icon tokens on the board engages the mind of the magician with the elements of the set, creating the deep focus required to improve control over the elements of that set.  

That control is then focused on doing whatever is necessary in order to replicate the set, as well as replicate the replication.  That is, the set always contains the magician themselves, as well as the desire they carry in their heart to replicate the set. 

We now cast about for sets that might replicate.  They can replicate without the full Trash Robot. The self-replicating branded chess set is an example Set Magic which can be cast on a chess board.




