[home](index.html)

# Operator

Trash Robot Operators are people who have the skills to replicate and operate all elements of the Trash Robot system.  Operators exchange information with people in their physical environment, creating a local communication network. We exchange information via signs which point to domains, which passerby can share information onto with each other. We carry on us or have in our control somewhere all the Elements of the Trash Robot Set.  

An Operator wears clothes which carry the Avatar of the rainbow and googly eyes, as well as the sign TRASH ROBOT sewn onto their clothes in the Trash Robot font.  We carry a sign which points to a domain.  The domain carries maps and scrolls which passerby can use to share information.  Maps and scrolls also point back into the physical world to connect the Trash Feeds of physical media.  This physical media can include the Coins/Tablets, cards, terminals, printers, shapes, boxes, clothes, signs, and markers etc. 

Operators build networks of exchange of information as well as physical things.  Operators provide value to users of the network by facilitating exchanges of value which would not be possible without the Network.  Operators also provide value by creating symbolic currency which can be used to further create economies of exchange.  Operators create value from nothing when they do this, not by creating a form of money but by creating non-monetary value which *facilitates* monetary exchange.  For example, a coffee barter token can be exchanged for a coffee gift card, then the next holder of it passes it along for another one and so on with one token potentially facilitating thousands of coffee gift card purchase transactions as it moves through the community.

Operators provide a level of trust as people running a network by having a well established collection of skills which are demonstrated by their actions.  The first action is being able to build their own full kit with the proper shirt, pants, signs and so on.  This is how passerby immediately recognize an Operator.  Further, any Operator will be able to immediately demonstrate the ability to alter a scroll and map on a Terminal and replicate that to a global domain which they point to with a Sign.  