[home](index.html)

# Operator

Trash Robot Operators are people who have the skills to replicate and operate all elements of the Trash Robot system.  Operators exchange information with people in their physical environment, creating a local communication network. We exchange information via signs which point to domains, which passerby can share information onto with each other. We carry on us or have in our control somewhere all the Elements of the Trash Robot Set.  

An Operator wears clothes which carry the Avatar of the rainbow and googly eyes, as well as the sign TRASH ROBOT sewn onto their clothes in the Trash Robot font.  We carry a sign which points to a domain.  The domain carries maps and scrolls which passerby can use to share information.  Maps and scrolls also point back into the physical world to connect the Trash Feeds of physical media.  This physical media can include the Coins/Tablets, cards, terminals, printers, shapes, boxes, clothes, signs, and markers etc. 

Operators build networks of exchange of information as well as physical things.  Operators provide value to users of the network by facilitating exchanges of value which would not be possible without the Network.  Operators also provide value by creating symbolic currency which can be used to further create economies of exchange.  Operators create value from nothing when they do this, not by creating a form of money but by creating non-monetary value which *facilitates* monetary exchange.  For example, a coffee barter token can be exchanged for a coffee gift card, then the next holder of it passes it along for another one and so on with one token potentially facilitating thousands of coffee gift card purchase transactions as it moves through the community.

Operators provide a level of trust as people running a network by having a well established collection of skills which are demonstrated by their actions.  The first action is being able to build their own full kit with the proper shirt, pants, signs and so on.  This is how passerby immediately recognize an Operator.  Further, any Operator will be able to immediately demonstrate the ability to alter a scroll and map on a Terminal and replicate that to a global domain which they point to with a Sign.  

Operators can create value in any network of exchange they interact with.  This enables the Operators to live completely on barter from anyone in their physical environment to whom they can provide value.  Thus a nominally mendicant lifestyle can be one of infinite plenty as long as we are able to provide significant value to those with whom we come into contact.  

The network we work with is that to which we are *physically* connected.  This is the Street Network.  On the Street, we share signs, and take posts via email or physical media exchange, and push objects to the Feed in physical space. A Trash Robot IS a local economy.   We carry tokens on a cord and exchange them for...anything.  If people find our work useful they can "buy" a token for barter of whatever an Operator needs or wants.

Operators are always looking to find more Operators from among the passerby.  When we find a potential Operator we share all elements of the set with them, teaching them to make and edit scrolls and maps, to make or buy all parts of the physical kit, or just make tokens.  There are many levels of Operator, and people can learn any part separate from any other part.  Many Operators will just do one thing, like just running a scroll or just selling tokens/tablets/coins.  


